We got a kind of a responsive design working,
we can rotate the device and it adjusts here on the auth screen,
that's great.
Now we can improve this set up though, one thing we're doing here is we're managing our responsiveness, our
styles in the state of our component, that is possible
and there might be situations where this is the best way to do it.
The downside of this is that we miss the optimisations the stylesheet does for us, if we use stylesheet create
as I showed on a slide earlier in this module, it will store and compile these styles more efficiently.
Chances are it doesn't make that much of a difference here
but what we could do as an alternative approach is we could simply define two different rules here in
the stylesheet and just load the different rules in our template depending on the orientation.
So what I mean is the following, we could change password container to landscape password container
and then set it to row because in landscape mode, we want to use flex direction row and space between
here,
then we duplicate this, add another property which we name portrait password container
for example, there we set flex direction column and this justify content to flex start. The same
for the wrapper,
we rename this to landscape password wrapper in which case we take 45% width but then we
duplicate this to also add the portrait password wrapper where we set this to 100%.
So now we get the styles defined here,
we can therefore take advantage of the stylesheet optimizations and we don't have to manage the styles
in our state,
we just have to manage the mode, so we could set a view mode here which we can calculate initially with
the dimensions API,
so we can get the window here and then get the height and if that's greater than 500, we can set it to
portrait for example and you can finetune this of course to find the perfect height, cutoff and otherwise
we set it to landscape.
And now whenever the dimensions change, we just set this view mode and not the responsive
style anymore
and we set the view mode to exactly that,
what we set it here to,
so we keep that logic, we just need to re-execute it whenever this changes because this up here won't dynamically
change the state,
it will just do this when we initialize it. Here,
we'll set the state to the new view mode.
Now all we have to do in our jsx code is to respect and use that view mode, so we can do this here where
we decide where we want to render heading text or not,
we can simply check if this state view mode is equal to portrait because only if it is, we want to render
this heading text and we switch between portrait and landscape in our logic here and we do the same
for our content here,
so for our wrapper for example. Here we want to set some style and we will use the stylesheet but we'll
use this state view mode
and if it's equal to portrait, then I will use styles portrait password container
otherwise it's styles landscape password container
and I'll quickly reformat this over multiple lines,
so this is the check for the first view. And then the view which wraps the individual input,
there I'll use an equal approach,
I'll check if this state view mode is equal to portrait and if it is, I will set styles portrait password
wrapper
and otherwise it's styles
landscape password wrapper and also distribute this over multiple lines.
And then I can copy this and also add it or replace the code on the second view which wraps the second
input, whoops, need to remove
style here too. With that if we now save this and we reload our application on both devices,
if we rotate it on Android, it still adjusts as it should
and the same on iOS but now it's a little bit more efficient.
It's quite verbose with this double rule definition out there but that's just how it is if you develop
cross-platform but we use the advantages of the stylesheet to dynamically switch the styles we want
to apply.
And with that, we get a responsive design for our auth screen.